id: 35507
title: Ensure udf kernel module is not available.
description: The udf filesystem type is the universal disk format used to implement ISO/IEC 13346 and ECMA-167 specifications. This is an open vendor filesystem type for data storage on a broad range of media. This filesystem type is necessary to support writing DVDs and newer optical disc formats.
rationale: Removing support for unneeded filesystem types reduces the local attack surface of the system. If this filesystem type is not needed, disable it.
impact: Microsoft Azure requires the usage of udf. udf should not be disabled on systems run on Microsoft Azure.
remediation: Run the following script to unload and disable the udf module: - IF - the udf kernel module is available in ANY installed kernel: - Create a file ending in .conf with install udf /bin/false in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory - Create a file ending in .conf with blacklist udf in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory - Run modprobe -r udf 2>/dev/null; rmmod udf 2>/dev/null to remove udf from the kernel - IF - the udf kernel module is not available on the system, or pre-compiled into the kernel, no remediation is necessary.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ['c:modprobe -n -v udf -> r:install /bin/false|install /bin/true|Module udf not found', 'not c:lsmod -> r:udf', 'd:/etc/modprobe.d/ -> r:.*\\.conf -> r:^blacklist\\s+udf']
