id: 35506
title: Ensure squashfs kernel module is not available.
description: The squashfs filesystem type is a compressed read-only Linux filesystem embedded in small footprint systems. A squashfs image can be used without having to first decompress the image.
rationale: Removing support for unneeded filesystem types reduces the local attack surface of the system. If this filesystem type is not needed, disable it.
impact: As Snap packages utilize squashfs as a compressed filesystem, disabling squashfs will cause Snap packages to fail. Snap application packages of software are self-contained and work across a range of Linux distributions. This is unlike traditional Linux package management approaches, like APT or RPM, which require specifically adapted packages per Linux distribution on an application update and delay therefore application deployment from developers to their software's end-user. Snaps themselves have no dependency on any external store ("App store"), can be obtained from any source and can be therefore used for upstream software deployment.
remediation: Run the following script to unload and disable the squashfs module: - IF - the squashfs kernel module is available in ANY installed kernel: - Create a file ending in .conf with install squashfs /bin/false in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory - Create a file ending in .conf with blacklist squashfs in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory - Run modprobe -r squashfs 2>/dev/null; rmmod squashfs 2>/dev/null to remove squashfs from the kernel - IF - the squashfs kernel module is not available on the system, or pre-compiled into the kernel, no remediation is necessary.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ['c:modprobe -n -v squashfs -> r:install /bin/false|install /bin/true|Module squashfs not found', 'not c:lsmod -> r:squashfs', 'd:/etc/modprobe.d/ -> r:.*\\.conf -> r:^blacklist\\s+squashfs']
