id: 35509
title: Ensure unused filesystems kernel modules are not available.
description: Filesystem kernel modules are pieces of code that can be dynamically loaded into the Linux kernel to extend its filesystem capabilities, or so-called base kernel, of an operating system. Filesystem kernel modules are typically used to add support for new hardware (as device drivers), or for adding system calls.
rationale: While loadable filesystem kernel modules are a convenient method of modifying the running kernel, this can be abused by attackers on a compromised system to prevent detection of their processes or files, allowing them to maintain control over the system. Many rootkits make use of loadable filesystem kernel modules in this way. Removing support for unneeded filesystem types reduces the local attack surface of the system. If this filesystem type is not needed, disable it. The following filesystem kernel modules have known CVE's and should be made unavailable if no dependencies exist: - afs - CVE-2022-37402 - ceph - CVE-2022-0670 - cifs - CVE-2022-29869 - exfat CVE-2022-29973 - ext CVE-2022-1184 - fat CVE-2022-22043 - fscache CVE-2022-3630 - fuse CVE-2023-0386 - gfs2 CVE-2023-3212 - nfs_common CVE-2023-6660 - nfsd CVE-2022-43945 - smbfs_common CVE-2022-2585.
impact: This list may be quite extensive and covering all edges cases is difficult. Therefore, it's crucial to carefully consider the implications and dependencies before making any changes to the filesystem kernel module configurations.
remediation: - IF - the module is available in the running kernel: - Unload the filesystem kernel module from the kernel - Create a file ending in .conf with install filesystem kernel modules /bin/false in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory - Create a file ending in .conf with deny list filesystem kernel modules in the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory WARNING: unloading, disabling or denylisting filesystem modules that are in use on the system maybe FATAL. It is extremely important to thoroughly review the filesystems returned by the audit before following the remediation procedure. Example of unloading the gfs2kernel module: # modprobe -r gfs2 2>/dev/null # rmmod gfs2 2>/dev/null Example of fully disabling the gfs2 kernel module.
references: ['https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=filesystem']
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ['c:modprobe -n -v afs -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:afs', 'c:modprobe -n -v ceph -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:ceph', 'c:modprobe -n -v cifs -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:cifs', 'c:modprobe -n -v exfat -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:exfat', 'c:modprobe -n -v ext -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:ext', 'c:modprobe -n -v fat -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:fat', 'c:modprobe -n -v fscache -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:fscache', 'c:modprobe -n -v fuse -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:fuse', 'c:modprobe -n -v gfs2 -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:gfs2', 'c:modprobe -n -v nfs_common -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:nfs_common', 'c:modprobe -n -v nfsd -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:nfsd', 'c:modprobe -n -v smbfs_common -> r:^install /bin/false', 'not c:lsmod -> r:smbfs_common']
