id: 35543
title: Ensure core dumps are restricted.
description: A core dump is the memory of an executable program. It is generally used to determine why a program aborted. It can also be used to glean confidential information from a core file. The system provides the ability to set a soft limit for core dumps, but this can be overridden by the user.
rationale: Setting a hard limit on core dumps prevents users from overriding the soft variable. If core dumps are required, consider setting limits for user groups (see limits.conf(5) ). In addition, setting the fs.suid_dumpable variable to 0 will prevent setuid programs from dumping core.
remediation: Add the following line to /etc/security/limits.conf or a /etc/security/limits.d/* file: * hard core 0 Set the following parameter in /etc/sysctl.conf or a file in /etc/sysctl.d/ ending in .conf: - fs.suid_dumpable = 0 Example: # printf "\n%s" "fs.suid_dumpable = 0" >> /etc/sysctl.d/60-fs_sysctl.conf Run the following command to set the active kernel parameter: # sysctl -w fs.suid_dumpable=0 Note: If these settings appear in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, these settings will be overwritten -IF- systemd-coredump is installed: edit /etc/systemd/coredump.conf and add/modify the following lines: Storage=none ProcessSizeMax=0 Run the command: systemctl daemon-reload.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CA.L2-3.12.4'], 'fedramp': ['CM-8'], 'gdpr': ['30', '32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.1.1', 'A.8.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.j', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.1', '3.12.4'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-8'], 'pci_dss': ['2.4', '9.1', '9.2', '9.3', '11.1', '9.5', '11.2', '12.5'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'CC3.2', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1595', 'T1046', 'T1087']}
condition: all
rules: ['c:sysctl fs.suid_dumpable -> r:^fs\\.suid_dumpable = 0', 'c:systemctl is-enabled coredump.service -> r:enabled|masked|disabled|not-found', 'c:grep -Rh "fs.suid_dumpable" /etc/sysctl.conf /etc/sysctl.d/ -> !r:^\\s*\\t*# && r:fs\\.suid_dumpable\\s*=\\s*0', 'c:grep -RhE "hard\\\\s+core\\\\s+0" /etc/security/limits.conf /etc/security/limits.d/ -> !r:^\\s*\\t*# && r:[*!+-]\\s+hard\\s+core\\s+0']
