id: 35554
title: Ensure GDM disable-user-list option is enabled.
description: GDM is the GNOME Display Manager which handles graphical login for GNOME based systems. The disable-user-list option controls if a list of users is displayed on the login screen.
rationale: Displaying the user list eliminates half of the Userid/Password equation that an unauthorized person would need to log on.
remediation: - IF - A user profile exists run the following command to enable the disable-user- list: # gsettings set org.gnome.login-screen disable-user-list true Note: - gsettings commands in this section MUST be done from a command window on a graphical desktop or an error will be returned. - The system must be restarted after all gsettings configurations have been set in order for CIS-CAT Assessor to appropriately assess. - OR/IF - A user profile does not exist: 1. Create or edit the gdm profile in /etc/dconf/profile/gdm with the following lines: user-db:user system-db:gdm file-db:/usr/share/gdm/greeter-dconf-defaults Note: gdm is the name of a dconf database. 2. Create a gdm keyfile for machine-wide settings in /etc/dconf/db/gdm.d/00- login-screen: [org/gnome/login-screen] # Do not show the user list disable-user-list=true 3. Update the system databases: # dconf update Note: When the user profile is created or changed, the user will need to log out and log in again before the changes will be applied.
references: ['https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/login-userlist-']
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CA.L2-3.12.4'], 'fedramp': ['CM-8'], 'gdpr': ['30', '32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.1.1', 'A.8.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.j', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.1', '3.12.4'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-8'], 'pci_dss': ['2.4', '9.1', '9.2', '9.3', '11.1', '9.5', '11.2', '12.5'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'CC3.2', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1595', 'T1046', 'T1087']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/dconf/db/gdm.d -> r:. -> r:^\\[org/gnome/login-screen\\]', 'd:/etc/dconf/db/gdm.d -> r:. -> r:^disable-user-list\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*true']
