id: 35557
title: Ensure GDM disabling automatic mounting of removable media is not overridden.
description: By default GNOME automatically mounts removable media when inserted as a convenience to the user. By using the lockdown mode in dconf, you can prevent users from changing specific settings. To lock down a dconf key or subpath, create a locks subdirectory in the keyfile directory. The files inside this directory contain a list of keys or subpaths to lock. Just as with the keyfiles, you may add any number of files to this directory.
rationale: With automounting enabled anyone with physical access could attach a USB drive or disc and have its contents available in system even if they lacked permissions to mount it themselves.
impact: The use of portable hard drives is very common for workstation users.
remediation: 1. To prevent the user from overriding these settings, create the file /etc/dconf/db/local.d/locks/00-media-automount with the following content: [org/gnome/desktop/media-handling] automount=false automount-open=false 2. Update the systems databases: # dconf update Note: - A user profile must exist in order to apply locks. - Users must log out and back in again before the system-wide settings take effect.
references: ['https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/dconf-lockdown.html.en', 'https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/gsettings.1.html', 'https://access.redhat.com/solutions/20107']
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CA.L2-3.12.4'], 'fedramp': ['CM-8'], 'gdpr': ['30', '32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.1.1', 'A.8.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.j', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.1', '3.12.4'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-8'], 'pci_dss': ['2.4', '9.1', '9.2', '9.3', '11.1', '9.5', '11.2', '12.5'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'CC3.2', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1595', 'T1046', 'T1087']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/dconf/db/local.d/locks -> r:. -> r:^org/gnome/desktop/media-handling/automount', 'd:/etc/dconf/db/local.d/locks -> r:. -> r:^org/gnome/desktop/media-handling/automount-open']
