id: 35567
title: Ensure ldap server services are not in use.
description: The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) was introduced as a replacement for NIS/YP. It is a service that provides a method for looking up information from a central database.
rationale: If the system will not need to act as an LDAP server, it is recommended that the software be removed to reduce the potential attack surface.
impact: There may be packages that are dependent on the slapd package. If the slapd package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the slapd package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask the slapd.service leaving the slapd package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop slapd.service and remove the slapd package: # systemctl stop slapd.service # apt purge slapd - OR - - IF - the slapd package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask slapd.service: # systemctl stop slapd.service # systemctl mask slapd.service.
references: ['http://www.openldap.org.']
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s slapd -> r:package 'slapd' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show slapd.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
