id: 35560
title: Ensure XDMCP is not enabled.
description: X Display Manager Control Protocol (XDMCP) is designed to provide authenticated access to display management services for remote displays.
rationale: XDMCP is inherently insecure. - XDMCP is not a ciphered protocol. This may allow an attacker to capture keystrokes entered by a user - XDMCP is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. This may allow an attacker to steal the credentials of legitimate users by impersonating the XDMCP server.
remediation: Edit all files returned by the audit and remove or commend out the Enable=true line in the [xdmcp] block: Example file: # GDM configuration storage # # See /usr/share/gdm/gdm.schemas for a list of available options. [daemon] # Uncomment the line below to force the login screen to use Xorg #WaylandEnable=false # Enabling automatic login # AutomaticLoginEnable = true # AutomaticLogin = user1 # Enabling timed login # TimedLoginEnable = true # TimedLogin = user1 # TimedLoginDelay = 10 [security] [xdmcp] # Enable=true <- **This line should be removed or commented out** [chooser] [debug] # Uncomment the line below to turn on debugging # More verbose logs # Additionally lets the X server dump core if it crashes #Enable=true.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ['not d:/etc/gdm3', 'not d:/etc/gdm3 -> r:custom\\.conf', 'not d:/etc/gdm3 -> r:custom\\.conf -> r:^\\s*\\t*Enable\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*true']
