id: 35568
title: Ensure message access server services are not in use.
description: dovecot-imapd and dovecot-pop3d are an open source IMAP and POP3 server for Linux based systems.
rationale: Unless POP3 and/or IMAP servers are to be provided by this system, it is recommended that the package be removed to reduce the potential attack surface. Note: Several IMAP/POP3 servers exist and can use other service names. These should also be audited and the packages removed if not required.
impact: There may be packages that are dependent on dovecot-imapd and/or dovecot-pop3d packages. If dovecot-imapd and dovecot-pop3d packages are removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing dovecot-imapd and/or dovecot-pop3d packages, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask dovecot.socket and dovecot.service leaving dovecot-imapd and/or dovecot-pop3d packages installed.
remediation: Run one of the following commands to remove dovecot-imapd and dovecot-pop3d: Run the following commands to stop dovecot.socket and dovecot.service, and remove the dovecot-imapd and dovecot-pop3d packages: # systemctl stop dovecot.socket dovecot.service # apt purge dovecot-imapd dovecot-pop3d - OR - - IF - a package is installed and is required for dependencies: Run the following commands to stop and mask dovecot.socket and dovecot.service: # systemctl stop dovecot.socket dovecot.service # systemctl mask dovecot.socket dovecot.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ['not c:dpkg-query -s dovecot-imapd dovecot-pop3d -> r:^Status: install ok installed', 'not c:systemctl show dovecot-imapd.socket dovecot.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
