id: 35579
title: Ensure xinetd services are not in use.
description: The eXtended InterNET Daemon (xinetd) is an open source super daemon that replaced the original inetd daemon. The xinetd daemon listens for well known services and dispatches the appropriate daemon to properly respond to service requests.
rationale: If there are no xinetd services required, it is recommended that the package be removed to reduce the attack surface are of the system. Note: If an xinetd service or services are required, ensure that any xinetd service not required is stopped and masked.
impact: There may be packages that are dependent on the xinetd package. If the xinetd package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the xinetd package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. -IF- a dependent package is required: stop and mask xinetd.service leaving the xinetd package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop xinetd.service, and remove the xinetd package: # systemctl stop xinetd.service # apt purge xinetd -OR- -IF- the xinetd package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask the xinetd.service: # systemctl stop xinetd.service # systemctl mask xinetd.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s xinetd -> r:package 'xinetd' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show xinetd.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
