id: 35573
title: Ensure rsync services are not in use.
description: The rsync service can be used to synchronize files between systems over network links.
rationale: rsync.service presents a security risk as the rsync protocol is unencrypted. The rsync package should be removed to reduce the attack area of the system.
impact: There may be packages that are dependent on the rsync package. If the rsync package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the rsync package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask rsync.service leaving the rsync package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop rsync.service, and remove the rsync package: # systemctl stop rsync.service # apt purge rsync - OR - - IF - the rsync package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask rsync.service: # systemctl stop rsync.service # systemctl mask rsync.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s rsync -> r:package 'rsync' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show rsync.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
