id: 35572
title: Ensure rpcbind services are not in use.
description: The rpcbind utility maps RPC services to the ports on which they listen. RPC processes notify rpcbind when they start, registering the ports they are listening on and the RPC program numbers they expect to serve. The client system then contacts rpcbind on the server with a particular RPC program number. The rpcbind.service redirects the client to the proper port number so it can communicate with the requested service. Portmapper is an RPC service, which always listens on tcp and udp 111, and is used to map other RPC services (such as nfs, nlockmgr, quotad, mountd, etc.) to their corresponding port number on the server. When a remote host makes an RPC call to that server, it first consults with portmap to determine where the RPC server is listening.
rationale: A small request (~82 bytes via UDP) sent to the Portmapper generates a large response (7x to 28x amplification), which makes it a suitable tool for DDoS attacks. If rpcbind is not required, it is recommended to remove rpcbind package to reduce the potential attack surface.
impact: Many of the libvirt packages used by Enterprise Linux virtualization, and the nfs-utils package used for The Network File System (NFS), are dependent on the rpcbind package. If the rpcbind package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the rpcbind package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask the rpcbind.socket and rpcbind.service leaving the rpcbind package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop rpcbind.socket and rpcbind.service, and remove the rpcbind package: # systemctl stop rpcbind.socket rpcbind.service # apt purge rpcbind - OR - - IF - the rpcbind package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask the rpcbind.socket and rpcbind.service: # systemctl stop rpcbind.socket rpcbind.service # systemctl mask rpcbind.socket rpcbind.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s rpcbind -> r:package 'rpcbind' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show rpcbind.socket rpcbind.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
