id: 35570
title: Ensure nis server services are not in use.
description: The Network Information Service (NIS) (formally known as Yellow Pages) is a client-server directory service protocol for distributing system configuration files. The NIS server is a collection of programs that allow for the distribution of configuration files. The NIS client (ypbind) was used to bind a machine to an NIS server and receive the distributed configuration files.
rationale: ypserv.service is inherently an insecure system that has been vulnerable to DOS attacks, buffer overflows and has poor authentication for querying NIS maps. NIS generally has been replaced by such protocols as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP). It is recommended that ypserv.service be removed and other, more secure services be used.
impact: There may be packages that are dependent on the ypserv package. If the ypserv package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the ypserv package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask the ypserv.service leaving the ypserv package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop ypserv.service and remove ypserv package: # systemctl stop ypserv.service # apt purge ypserv - OR - - IF - the ypserv package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask ypserv.service: # systemctl stop ypserv.service # systemctl mask ypserv.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s ypserv -> r:package 'ypserv' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show ypserv.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
