id: 35576
title: Ensure tftp server services are not in use.
description: Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) is a simple protocol for exchanging files between two TCP/IP machines. TFTP servers allow connections from a TFTP Client for sending and receiving files.
rationale: Unless there is a need to run the system as a TFTP server, it is recommended that the package be removed to reduce the potential attack surface. TFTP does not have built-in encryption, access control or authentication. This makes it very easy for an attacker to exploit TFTP to gain access to files.
impact: TFTP is often used to provide files for network booting such as for PXE based installation of servers. There may be packages that are dependent on the tftpd-hpa package. If the tftpd-hpa package is removed, these dependent packages will be removed as well. Before removing the tftpd-hpa package, review any dependent packages to determine if they are required on the system. - IF - a dependent package is required: stop and mask tftpd-hpa.service leaving the tftpd-hpa package installed.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop tftpd-hpa.service, and remove the tftpd-hpa package: # systemctl stop tftpd-hpa.service # apt purge tftpd-hpa - OR - - IF - the tftpd-hpa package is required as a dependency: Run the following commands to stop and mask tftpd-hpa.service: # systemctl stop tftpd-hpa.service # systemctl mask tftpd-hpa.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s tftpd-hpa -> r:package 'tftpd-hpa' is not installed", 'not c:systemctl show tftpd-hpa.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
