id: 35578
title: Ensure web server services are not in use.
description: Web servers provide the ability to host web site content.
rationale: Unless there is a local site approved requirement to run a web server service on the system, web server packages should be removed to reduce the potential attack surface.
impact: Removal of web server packages will remove that ability for the server to host web services. - IF - the web server package is required for a dependency, any related service or socket should be stopped and masked. Note: If the remediation steps to mask a service are followed and that package is not installed on the system, the service and/or socket will still be masked. If the package is installed due to an approved requirement to host a web server, the associated service and/or socket would need to be unmasked before it could be enabled and/or started.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop httpd.socket, httpd.service, and nginx.service, and remove apache2 and nginx packages: # systemctl stop apache2.socket apache2.service nginx.service # apt purge apache2 nginx - OR - - IF - a package is installed and is required for dependencies: Run the following commands to stop and mask apache2.socket, apache2.service, and nginx.service: # systemctl stop apache2.socket apache2.service nginx.service # systemctl mask apache2.socket apache2.service nginx.service Note: Other web server packages may exist. If not required and authorized by local site policy, they should also be removed. If the package is required for a dependency, the service and socket should be stopped and masked.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: any
rules: ['not c:dpkg-query -s apache2 nginx -> r:^Status: install ok installed', 'not c:systemctl show apache2.socket apache2.service nginx.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
