id: 35580
title: Ensure X window server services are not in use.
description: The X Window System provides a Graphical User Interface (GUI) where users can have multiple windows in which to run programs and various add on. The X Windows system is typically used on workstations where users login, but not on servers where users typically do not login.
rationale: Unless your organization specifically requires graphical login access via X Windows, remove it to reduce the potential attack surface.
impact: If a Graphical Desktop Manager (GDM) is in use on the system, there may be a dependency on the xorg-x11-server-common package. If the GDM is required and approved by local site policy, the package should not be removed. Many Linux systems run applications which require a Java runtime. Some Linux Java packages have a dependency on specific X Windows xorg-x11-fonts. One workaround to avoid this dependency is to use the "headless" Java packages for your specific Java runtime.
remediation: - IF - a Graphical Desktop Manager or X-Windows server is not required and approved by local site policy: Run the following command to remove the X Windows Server package: # apt purge xserver-common.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ["c:dpkg-query -s xserver-common -> r:package 'xserver-common' is not installed"]
