id: 35588
title: Ensure systemd-timesyncd configured with authorized timeserver.
description: NTP= - A space-separated list of NTP server host names or IP addresses. During runtime this list is combined with any per-interface NTP servers acquired from systemd-networkd.service(8). systemd-timesyncd will contact all configured system or per-interface servers in turn, until one responds. When the empty string is assigned, the list of NTP servers is reset, and all prior assignments will have no effect. This setting defaults to an empty list. FallbackNTP= - A space-separated list of NTP server host names or IP addresses to be used as the fallback NTP servers. Any per-interface NTP servers obtained from systemd-networkd.service(8) take precedence over this setting, as do any servers set via NTP= above. This setting is hence only relevant if no other NTP server information is known. When the empty string is assigned, the list of NTP servers is reset, and all prior assignments will have no effect. If this option is not given, a compiled-in list of NTP servers is used.
rationale: Time synchronization is important to support time sensitive security mechanisms and to ensure log files have consistent time records across the enterprise to aid in forensic investigations.
remediation: Set NTP and/or FallbackNPT parameters to local site approved authoritative time server(s) in /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf or a file in /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/ ending in .conf in the [Time] section: Example file: [Time] NTP=time.nist.gov # Uses the generic name for NIST's time servers FallbackNTP=time-a-g.nist.gov time-b-g.nist.gov time-c-g.nist.gov # Space separated list of NIST time servers Example script to create systemd drop-in configuration file: #!/usr/bin/env bash { a_settings=("NTP=time.nist.gov" "FallbackNTP=time-a-g.nist.gov time-b- g.nist.gov time-c-g.nist.gov") [ ! -d /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/ ] && mkdir /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/ if grep -Psq -- '^\h*\[Time\]' /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/60- timesyncd.conf; then printf '%s\n' "" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/60-timesyncd.conf else printf '%s\n' "" "[Time]" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf.d/60-timesyncd.conf fi } Note: If this setting appears in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, the setting will be overwritten Run to following command to update the parameters in the service: # systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-journald.
references: ['https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/timesyncd.conf.html', 'https://tf.nist.gov/tf-cgi/servers.cgi']
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.7'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.7'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.4', '10.6'], 'tsc': ['CC4.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['f:/etc/systemd/timesyncd.conf -> r:^NTP|^FallbackNTP', 'not c:systemctl show systemd-timesyncd.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
