id: 35590
title: Ensure chrony is configured with authorized timeserver.
description: The server directive specifies an NTP server which can be used as a time source. The client-server relationship is strictly hierarchical: a client might synchronize its system time to that of the server, but the server's system time will never be influenced by that of a client. o This directive can be used multiple times to specify multiple servers. o The directive is immediately followed by either the name of the server, or its IP address. - pool o The syntax of this directive is similar to that for the server directive, except that it is used to specify a pool of NTP servers rather than a single NTP server. The pool name is expected to resolve to multiple addresses which might change over time. o This directive can be used multiple times to specify multiple pools. o All options valid in the server directive can be used in this directive too.
rationale: Time synchronization is important to support time sensitive security mechanisms and to ensure log files have consistent time records across the enterprise to aid in forensic investigations.
remediation: Edit /etc/chrony/chrony.conf or a file ending in .sources in /etc/chrony/sources.d/ and add or edit server or pool lines as appropriate according to local site policy: Edit the Chrony configuration and add or edit the server and/or pool lines returned by the Audit Procedure as appropriate according to local site policy <[server|pool]> <[remote-server|remote-pool]> Example script to add a drop-in configuration for the pool directive: #!/usr/bin/env bash { [ ! -d "/etc/chrony/sources.d/" ] && mkdir /etc/chrony/sources.d/ printf '%s\n' "" "#The maxsources option is unique to the pool directive" \ "pool time.nist.gov iburst maxsources 4" >> /etc/chrony/sources.d/60- sources.sources chronyc reload sources &>/dev/null } Example script to add a drop-in configuration for the server directive: #!/usr/bin/env bash { [ ! -d "/etc/chrony/sources.d/" ] && mkdir /etc/chrony/sources.d/ printf '%s\n' "" "server time-a-g.nist.gov iburst" "server 132.163.97.3 iburst" \ "server time-d-b.nist.gov iburst" >> /etc/chrony/sources.d/60- sources.sources chronyc reload sources &>/dev/null } Run the following command to reload the chronyd config: # systemctl reload-or-restart chronyd.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.7'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.7'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.4', '10.6'], 'tsc': ['CC4.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['f:/etc/chrony/chrony.conf -> r:^server|^pool', 'd:/etc/chrony/sources.d -> r:.*\\.sources -> r:^server|^pool', 'not c:systemctl show chrony.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
