id: 35608
title: Ensure ip forwarding is disabled.
description: The net.ipv4.ip_forward and net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding flags are used to tell the system whether it can forward packets or not.
rationale: Setting net.ipv4.ip_forward and net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding to 0 ensures that a system with multiple interfaces (for example, a hard proxy), will never be able to forward packets, and therefore, never serve as a router.
impact: IP forwarding is required on systems configured to act as a router. If these parameters are disabled, the system will not be able to perform as a router. Many Cloud Service Provider (CSP) hosted systems require IP forwarding to be enabled. If the system is running on a CSP platform, this requirement should be reviewed before disabling IP forwarding.
remediation: Set the following parameter in /etc/sysctl.conf or a file in /etc/sysctl.d/ ending in .conf: - net.ipv4.ip_forward = 0 Example: # printf '%s\n' "net.ipv4.ip_forward = 0" >> /etc/sysctl.d/60- netipv4_sysctl.conf Run the following script to set the active kernel parameters: #!/usr/bin/env bash { sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=0 sysctl -w net.ipv4.route.flush=1 } - IF - IPv6 is enabled on the system: Set the following parameter in /etc/sysctl.conf or a file in /etc/sysctl.d/ ending in .conf: - net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding = 0 Example: # printf '%s\n' "net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding = 0" >> /etc/sysctl.d/60- netipv6_sysctl.conf Run the following script to set the active kernel parameters: #!/usr/bin/env bash { sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding=0 sysctl -w net.ipv6.route.flush=1 } Note: If these settings appear in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, these settings will be overwritten.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ['c:sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward -> r:=\\s*\\t*0$', 'c:sysctl net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding -> r:=\\s*\\t*0$']
