id: 35643
title: Ensure sshd access is configured.
description: There are several options available to limit which users and group can access the system via SSH. It is recommended that at least one of the following options be leveraged: - AllowUsers: o The AllowUsers variable gives the system administrator the option of allowing specific users to ssh into the system. The list consists of space separated user names. Numeric user IDs are not recognized with this variable. If a system administrator wants to restrict user access further by only allowing the allowed users to log in from a particular host, the entry can be specified in the form of user@host. - AllowGroups: o The AllowGroups variable gives the system administrator the option of allowing specific groups of users to ssh into the system. The list consists of space separated group names. Numeric group IDs are not recognized with this variable. - DenyUsers: o The DenyUsers variable gives the system administrator the option of denying specific users to ssh into the system. The list consists of space separated user names. Numeric user IDs are not recognized with this variable. If a system administrator wants to restrict user access further by specifically denying a user's access from a particular host, the entry can be specified in the form of user@host. - DenyGroups: o The DenyGroups variable gives the system administrator the option of denying specific groups of users to ssh into the system. The list consists of space separated group names. Numeric group IDs are not recognized with this variable.
rationale: Restricting which users can remotely access the system via SSH will help ensure that only authorized users access the system.
remediation: Edit the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file to set one or more of the parameters above any Include and Match set statements as follows: AllowUsers <userlist> - AND/OR - AllowGroups <grouplist> Note: - First occurrence of a option takes precedence, Match set statements withstanding. If Include locations are enabled, used, and order of precedence is understood in your environment, the entry may be created in a .conf file in an Include directory. - Be advised that these options are "ANDed" together. If both AllowUsers and AllowGroups are set, connections will be limited to the list of users that are also a member of an allowed group. It is recommended that only one be set for clarity and ease of administration. It is easier to manage an allow list than a deny list. In a deny list, you could potentially add a user or group and forget to add it to the deny list. -.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AC.L2-3.1.1', 'AC.L2-3.1.2', 'AC.L2-3.1.5', 'AC.L2-3.1.3', 'MP.L2-3.8.2'], 'fedramp': ['AC-5', 'AC-6'], 'gdpr': ['32', '25', '30'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.2.3', 'A.8.3.1', 'A.8.3.2', 'A.10.1.1', 'A.13.2.1', 'A.18.1.4'], 'nis2': ['21.2.g', '21.2.j', '21.2.i'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.1.1', '3.1.2', '3.1.5', '3.1.3', '3.8.2'], 'nist_800_53': ['AC-5', 'AC-6'], 'pci_dss': ['7.1', '1.3'], 'tsc': ['CC5.2', 'CC6.1', 'C1.1', 'C1.2', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8', 'P1.1', 'P2.1', 'P3.1', 'P4.1', 'P5.1', 'P6.1', 'P7.1', 'P8.1']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0009', 'TA0010'], 'technique': ['T1005', 'T1025', 'T1041', 'T1567', 'T1573'], 'subtechnique': ['T1048.003', 'T1552.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['c:sshd -T -> r:^\\s*\\t*Allowusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denyusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Allowgroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denygroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+', 'f:/etc/ssh/sshd_config -> r:^\\s*\\t*Allowusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denyusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Allowgroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denygroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+', 'd:/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d -> r:.* -> r:^\\s*\\t*Allowusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denyusers\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Allowgroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+|^\\s*\\t*Denygroups\\s*\\t*[\\w@-]+']
