id: 35644
title: Ensure sshd Banner is configured.
description: The Banner parameter specifies a file whose contents must be sent to the remote user before authentication is permitted. By default, no banner is displayed.
rationale: Banners are used to warn connecting users of the particular site's policy regarding connection. Presenting a warning message prior to the normal user login may assist the prosecution of trespassers on the computer system.
remediation: Edit the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file to set the Banner parameter above any Include and Match entries as follows: Banner /etc/issue.net Note: First occurrence of a option takes precedence, Match set statements withstanding. If Include locations are enabled, used, and order of precedence is understood in your environment, the entry may be created in a file in Include location. Edit the file being called by the Banner argument with the appropriate contents according to your site policy, remove any instances of \m , \r , \s , \v or references to the OS platform Example: # printf '%s\n' "Authorized users only. All activity may be monitored and reported." > "$(sshd -T | awk '$1 == "banner" {print $2}')".
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CA.L2-3.12.4'], 'fedramp': ['CM-8'], 'gdpr': ['30', '32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.1.1', 'A.8.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.j', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.1', '3.12.4'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-8'], 'pci_dss': ['2.4', '9.1', '9.2', '9.3', '11.1', '9.5', '11.2', '12.5'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'CC3.2', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1595', 'T1046', 'T1087']}
condition: all
rules: ['c:sshd -T -> r:^banner && r:/etc/issue\\.net$']
