id: 35652
title: Ensure sshd LoginGraceTime is configured.
description: The LoginGraceTime parameter specifies the time allowed for successful authentication to the SSH server. The longer the Grace period is the more open unauthenticated connections can exist. Like other session controls in this session the Grace Period should be limited to appropriate organizational limits to ensure the service is available for needed access.
rationale: Setting the LoginGraceTime parameter to a low number will minimize the risk of successful brute force attacks to the SSH server. It will also limit the number of concurrent unauthenticated connections While the recommended setting is 60 seconds (1 Minute), set the number based on site policy.
remediation: Edit the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file to set the LoginGraceTime parameter to 60 seconds or less above any Include entry as follows: LoginGraceTime 60 Note: First occurrence of a option takes precedence. If Include locations are enabled, used, and order of precedence is understood in your environment, the entry may be created in a file in Include location.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CA.L2-3.12.4'], 'fedramp': ['CM-8'], 'gdpr': ['30', '32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.1.1', 'A.8.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.j', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.1', '3.12.4'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-8'], 'pci_dss': ['2.4', '9.1', '9.2', '9.3', '11.1', '9.5', '11.2', '12.5'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'CC3.2', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1595', 'T1046', 'T1087']}
condition: all
rules: ['c:sshd -T -> n:^\\s*logingracetime\\s*(\\d+) compare <= 60 && n:^logingracetime\\s*(\\d+) compare >= 1', 'not f:/etc/ssh/sshd_config -> n:^\\s*\\t*LoginGraceTime\\s*\\t*(\\d+) compare > 60', 'not f:/etc/ssh/sshd_config -> n:^\\s*\\t*LoginGraceTime\\s*\\t*(\\d+) compare == 0']
