id: 35664
title: Ensure sudo log file exists.
description: sudo can use a custom log file.
rationale: A sudo log file simplifies auditing of sudo commands.
impact: WARNING: Editing the sudo configuration incorrectly can cause sudo to stop functioning. Always use visudo to modify sudo configuration files.
remediation: Edit the file /etc/sudoers or a file in /etc/sudoers.d/ with visudo or visudo -f <PATH TO FILE> and add the following line: Example: Defaults logfile="/var/log/sudo.log" Note: - sudo will read each file in /etc/sudoers.d, skipping file names that end in ~ or contain a . character to avoid causing problems with package manager or editor temporary/backup files. - Files are parsed in sorted lexical order. That is, /etc/sudoers.d/01_first will be parsed before /etc/sudoers.d/10_second. - Be aware that because the sorting is lexical, not numeric, /etc/sudoers.d/1_whoops would be loaded after /etc/sudoers.d/10_second. - Using a consistent number of leading zeroes in the file names can be used to avoid such problems.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.1', '10.2', '10.3', '9.4'], 'tsc': ['CC5.2', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['f:/etc/sudoers -> r:^\\s*\\t*Defaults\\s*\\t*logfile=\\S+\\.log', 'd:/etc/sudoers.d -> \\.* -> r:^\\s*\\t*Defaults\\s*\\t*logfile=\\S+\\.log']
