id: 35677
title: Ensure password unlock time is configured.
description: unlock_time=<n> - The access will be re-enabled after seconds after the lock out. The value 0 has the same meaning as value never - the access will not be re-enabled without resetting the faillock entries by the faillock(8) command. Note: - The default directory that pam_faillock uses is usually cleared on system boot so the access will be also re-enabled after system reboot. If that is undesirable a different tally directory must be set with the dir option. It is usually undesirable to permanently lock out users as they can become easily a target of denial of service attack unless the usernames are random and kept secret to potential attackers. - - The maximum configurable value for unlock_time is 604800.
rationale: Locking out user IDs after n unsuccessful consecutive login attempts mitigates brute force password attacks against your systems.
impact: Use of unlock_time=0 may allow an attacker to cause denial of service to legitimate users. This will also require a systems administrator with elevated privileges to unlock the account.
remediation: Set password unlock time to conform to site policy. unlock_time should be 0 (never), or 900 seconds or greater. Edit /etc/security/faillock.conf and update or add the following line: unlock_time = 900 Run the following command: remove the unlock_time argument from the pam_faillock.so module in the PAM files: # grep -Pl -- '\bpam_faillock\.so\h+([^#\n\r]+\h+)?unlock_time\b' /usr/share/pam-configs/* Edit any returned files and remove the unlock_time=<N> argument from the pam_faillock.so line(s):.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AC.L2-3.1.1'], 'fedramp': ['AC-2'], 'gdpr': ['32', '25'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(4)', '164.312(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.9.1.1', 'A.9.4.1', 'A.13.1.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.i', '21.2.k'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.1.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AC-2'], 'pci_dss': ['8.1', '8.2'], 'tsc': ['CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.1', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0004', 'TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1078', 'T1098', 'T1556']}
condition: any
rules: ['f:/etc/security/faillock.conf -> n:^unlock_time\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*(\\d+) compare == 0', 'f:/etc/security/faillock.conf -> n:^unlock_time\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*(\\d+) compare >= 900']
