id: 35692
title: Ensure pam_unix includes a strong password hashing algorithm.
description: A cryptographic hash function converts an arbitrary-length input into a fixed length output. Password hashing performs a one-way transformation of a password, turning the password into another string, called the hashed password. The pam_unix module can be configured to use one of the following hashing algorithms for user's passwords: - md5 - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the MD5 algorithm. - bigcrypt - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the DEC C2 algorithm. - sha256 - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the SHA256 algorithm. The SHA256 algorithm must be supported by the crypt(3) function. - sha512 - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the SHA512 algorithm. The SHA512 algorithm must be supported by the crypt(3) function. - blowfish - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the blowfish algorithm. The blowfish algorithm must be supported by the crypt(3) function. - gost_yescrypt - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the gost-yescrypt algorithm. The gost-yescrypt algorithm must be supported by the crypt(3) function. - yescrypt - When a user changes their password next, encrypt it with the yescrypt algorithm. The yescrypt algorithm must be supported by the crypt(3) function.
rationale: The SHA-512 and yescrypt algorithms provide a stronger hash than other algorithms used by Linux for password hash generation. A stronger hash provides additional protection to the system by increasing the level of effort needed for an attacker to successfully determine local user passwords. Note: These changes only apply to the local system.
remediation: Run the following command: # awk '/Password-Type:/{ f = 1;next } /-Type:/{ f = 0 } f {if (/pam_unix\.so/) print FILENAME}' /usr/share/pam-configs/* Edit any returned files and edit or add a strong hashing algorithm, either sha512 or yescrypt, that meets local site policy to the pam_unix lines in the Password section: Example File: Name: Unix authentication Default: yes Priority: 256 Auth-Type: Primary # <- Start of "Auth" section Auth: [success=end default=ignore] pam_unix.so try_first_pass Auth-Initial: [success=end default=ignore] pam_unix.so Account-Type: Primary # <- Start of "Account" section Account: [success=end new_authtok_reqd=done default=ignore] pam_unix.so Account-Initial: [success=end new_authtok_reqd=done default=ignore] pam_unix.so Session-Type: Additional # <- Start of "Session" section Session: required pam_unix.so Session-Initial: required pam_unix.so Password-Type: Primary # <- Start of "Password" section Password: [success=end default=ignore] pam_unix.so obscure use_authtok try_first_pass yescrypt # <- **ensure hashing algorithm is either sha512 or yescrypt** Password-Initial: [success=end default=ignore] pam_unix.so obscure yescrypt # <- **ensure hashing algorithm is either sha512 or yescrypt** Run the following command to update the files in the /etc/pam.d/ directory: # pam-auth-update --enable <MODIFIED_PROFILE_NAME> Example: # pam-auth-update --enable unix.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AC.L2-3.1.19', 'IA.L2-3.5.10', 'MP.L2-3.8.1', 'SC.L2-3.13.11', 'SC.L2-3.13.16'], 'fedramp': ['MP-4', 'MP-5', 'MP-6', 'SC-8', 'SC-13', 'SC-28'], 'gdpr': ['32', '25', '30'], 'hipaa': ['164.310(d)(1)', '164.312(a)(1)', '164.312(e)(1)', '164.530(c)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.8.2.3', 'A.8.3.1', 'A.8.3.2', 'A.10.1.1', 'A.13.2.1', 'A.18.1.4'], 'nis2': ['21.2.g', '21.2.j', '21.2.i'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.1.19', '3.5.10', '3.8.1', '3.13.11', '3.13.16'], 'nist_800_53': ['MP-4', 'MP-5', 'MP-6', 'SC-8', 'SC-13'], 'pci_dss': ['3.4', '8.2', '3.1', '3.3', '3.5', '8.3'], 'tsc': ['CC6.1', 'C1.1', 'C1.2', 'CC6.2', 'CC6.3', 'CC6.4', 'CC6.5', 'CC6.6', 'CC6.7', 'CC6.8', 'P1.1', 'P2.1', 'P3.1', 'P4.1', 'P5.1', 'P6.1', 'P7.1', 'P8.1']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0009', 'TA0010'], 'technique': ['T1005', 'T1025', 'T1041', 'T1567', 'T1573'], 'subtechnique': ['T1048.003', 'T1552.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['f:/etc/pam.d/common-password -> r:^password && r:pam_unix\\.so && r:sha512|yescrypt']
