id: 35696
title: Ensure password expiration warning days is configured.
description: The PASS_WARN_AGE parameter in /etc/login.defs allows an administrator to notify users that their password will expire in a defined number of days. PASS_WARN_AGE <N> - The number of days warning given before a password expires. A zero means warning is given only upon the day of expiration, a negative value means no warning is given. If not specified, no warning will be provided.
rationale: Providing an advance warning that a password will be expiring gives users time to think of a secure password. Users caught unaware may choose a simple password or write it down where it may be discovered.
remediation: Edit /etc/login.defs and set PASS_WARN_AGE to a value of 7 or more that follows local site policy: Example: PASS_WARN_AGE 7 Run the following command to modify user parameters for all users with a password set to a minimum warning to 7 or more days that follows local site policy: # chage --warndays <N> <user> Example: # awk -F: '($2~/^\$.+\$/) {if($6 < 7)system ("chage --warndays 7 " $1)}' /etc/shadow.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AC.L2-3.1.1', 'AC.L2-3.1.2', 'CM.L2-3.4.1', 'CM.L2-3.4.6', 'CM.L2-3.4.2', 'CM.L2-3.4.7'], 'fedramp': ['CM-7', 'CM-9'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.1.1', '3.1.2', '3.4.1', '3.4.6', '3.4.2', '3.4.7'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-7', 'CM-9'], 'pci_dss': ['2.2', '11.5', '1.1', '1.2', '1.5', '2.1'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ['f:/etc/login.defs -> n:^PASS_WARN_AGE\\s*\\t*(\\d+) compare >= 7', 'f:/etc/shadow -> n:.*:\\$.*:.*:.*:.*:(\\d+):.*:.*: compare >= 7']
