id: 35708
title: Ensure journald log file rotation is configured.
description: Journald includes the capability of rotating log files regularly to avoid filling up the system with logs or making the logs unmanageably large. The file /etc/systemd/journald.conf is the configuration file used to specify how logs generated by Journald should be rotated.
rationale: By keeping the log files smaller and more manageable, a system administrator can easily archive these files to another system and spend less time looking through inordinately large log files.
remediation: Edit /etc/systemd/journald.conf or a file ending in .conf the /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ directory. Set the following parameters in the [Journal] section to ensure logs are rotated according to site policy. The settings should be carefully understood as there are specific edge cases and prioritization of parameters. Example Configuration: [Journal] SystemMaxUse=1G SystemKeepFree=500M RuntimeMaxUse=200M RuntimeKeepFree=50M MaxFileSec=1month Example script to create systemd drop-in configuration file: { a_settings=("SystemMaxUse=1G" "SystemKeepFree=500M" "RuntimeMaxUse=200M" "RuntimeKeepFree=50M" "MaxFileSec=1month") [ ! -d /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ ] && mkdir /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ if grep -Psq -- '^\h*\[Journal\]' /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf; then printf '%s\n' "" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf else printf '%s\n' "" "[Journal]" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60-journald.conf fi } Note: - If these settings appear in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, the setting will be overwritten - Logfile size and configuration to move logfiles to a remote log server should be accounted for when configuring these settings Run to following command to update the parameters in the service: # systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-journald.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^SystemMaxUse\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+', 'f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^SystemKeepFree\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+', 'f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^RuntimeMaxUse\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+', 'f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^RuntimeKeepFree\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+', 'f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^MaxFileSec\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+', 'd:/etc/systemd/journald.conf.d -> r:.*\\.conf -> r:^SystemMaxUse\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+|^SystemKeepFree\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+|^RuntimeMaxUse\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+|^RuntimeKeepFree\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+|^MaxFileSec\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*\\d+']
