id: 35718
title: Ensure journald is configured to send logs to rsyslog.
description: Data from systemd-journald may be stored in volatile memory or persisted locally on the server. Utilities exist to accept remote export of systemd-journald logs, however, use of the rsyslog service provides a consistent means of log collection and export.
rationale: - IF - rsyslog is the preferred method for capturing logs, all logs of the system should be sent to it for further processing. Note: This recommendation only applies if rsyslog is the chosen method for client side logging. Do not apply this recommendation if systemd-journald is used.
remediation: - IF - Journald is the preferred method for capturing logs, this section and Recommendation should be skipped and the "Configure Journald" section followed. - IF - rsyslog is the preferred method for capturing logs: Set the following parameter in the [Journal] section in /etc/systemd/journald.conf or a file in /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ ending in .conf: ForwardToSyslog=yes Example script to create systemd drop-in configuration file: #!/usr/bin/env bash { a_settings=("ForwardToSyslog=yes") [ ! -d /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ ] && mkdir /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ if grep -Psq -- '^\h*\[Journal\]' /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf; then printf '%s\n' "" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf else printf '%s\n' "" "[Journal]" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60-journald.conf fi } Note: If this setting appears in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, the setting will be overwritten Run to following command to update the parameters in the service: Restart systemd-journald.service: # systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-journald.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['c:systemctl show systemd-journald.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active', 'c:systemctl show rsyslog.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active', 'f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^ForwardToSyslog\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*yes']
