id: 35712
title: Ensure systemd-journal-remote service is not in use.
description: Journald systemd-journal-remote supports the ability to receive messages from remote hosts, thus acting as a log server. Clients should not receive data from other hosts. Note: - The same package, systemd-journal-remote, is used for both sending logs to remote hosts and receiving incoming logs. - With regards to receiving logs, there are two services; systemd-journal- remote.socket and systemd-journal-remote.service.
rationale: If a client is configured to also receive data, thus turning it into a server, the client system is acting outside it's operational boundary. Note: This recommendation only applies if journald is the chosen method for client side logging. Do not apply this recommendation if rsyslog is used.
remediation: Run the following commands to stop and mask systemd-journal-remote.socket and systemd-journal-remote.service: # systemctl stop systemd-journal-remote.socket systemd-journal-remote.service # systemctl mask systemd-journal-remote.socket systemd-journal-remote.service.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['CM.L2-3.4.7', 'CM.L2-3.4.8', 'SC.L2-3.13.6'], 'fedramp': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'gdpr': ['32'], 'hipaa': ['164.308(a)(1)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.1.1', 'A.12.1.2', 'A.14.2.1'], 'nis2': ['21.2.e', '21.2.a'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.4.7', '3.4.8', '3.13.6'], 'nist_800_53': ['CM-2', 'CM-3', 'CM-6', 'CM-7'], 'pci_dss': ['1.1', '1.2', '2.2', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC6.3', 'CC6.6', 'CC8.1', 'CC5.1', 'CC5.2', 'CC5.3']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005'], 'technique': ['T1036', 'T1564']}
condition: all
rules: ['not c:systemctl is-enabled systemd-journal-remote.socket systemd-journal-remote.service -> r:^enabled', 'not c:systemctl is-active systemd-journal-remote.socket systemd-journal-remote.service -> r:^active']
