id: 35714
title: Ensure journald Compress is configured.
description: The journald system includes the capability of compressing overly large files to avoid filling up the system with logs or making the logs unmanageably large.
rationale: Uncompressed large files may unexpectedly fill a filesystem leading to resource unavailability. Compressing logs prior to write can prevent sudden, unexpected filesystem impacts. Note: This recommendation only applies if journald is the chosen method for client side logging. Do not apply this recommendation if rsyslog is used.
remediation: - IF - rsyslog is the preferred method for capturing logs, this section and Recommendation should be skipped and the "Configure rsyslog" section followed. - IF - journald is the preferred method for capturing logs: Set the following parameter in the [Journal] section in /etc/systemd/journald.conf or a file in /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ ending in .conf: Compress=yes Example script to create systemd drop-in configuration file: #!/usr/bin/env bash { a_settings=("Compress=yes") [ ! -d /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ ] && mkdir /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ if grep -Psq -- '^\h*\[Journal\]' /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf; then printf '%s\n' "" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60- journald.conf else printf '%s\n' "" "[Journal]" "${a_settings[@]}" >> /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/60-journald.conf fi } Note: If this setting appears in a canonically later file, or later in the same file, the setting will be overwritten Run to following command to update the parameters in the service: # systemctl reload-or-restart systemd-journald.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: any
rules: ['f:/etc/systemd/journald.conf -> r:^Compress\\s*\\t*=\\s*\\t*yes', 'c:systemctl show rsyslog.service -> r:^LoadState=loaded|^ActiveState=active']
