id: 35726
title: Ensure audit_backlog_limit is sufficient.
description: In the kernel-level audit subsystem, a socket buffer queue is used to hold audit events. Whenever a new audit event is received, it is logged and prepared to be added to this queue. The kernel boot parameter audit_backlog_limit=N, with N representing the amount of messages, will ensure that a queue cannot grow beyond a certain size. If an audit event is logged which would grow the queue beyond this limit, then a failure occurs and is handled according to the system configuration.
rationale: If an audit event is logged which would grow the queue beyond the audit_backlog_limit, then a failure occurs, auditd records will be lost, and potential malicious activity could go undetected.
remediation: Edit /etc/default/grub and add audit_backlog_limit=N to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX. The recommended size for N is 8192 or larger. Example: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="audit_backlog_limit=8192" Run the following command to update the grub2 configuration: # update-grub.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['f:/boot/grub/grub.cfg -> r:^\\s*\\t*linux && n:audit_backlog_limit=(\\d+) compare >= 8192']
