id: 35739
title: Ensure successful file system mounts are collected.
description: Monitor the use of the mount system call. The mount (and umount) system call controls the mounting and unmounting of file systems. The parameters below configure the system to create an audit record when the mount system call is used by a non-privileged user.
rationale: It is highly unusual for a non privileged user to mount file systems to the system. While tracking mount commands gives the system administrator evidence that external media may have been mounted (based on a review of the source of the mount and confirming it's an external media type), it does not conclusively indicate that data was exported to the media. System administrators who wish to determine if data were exported, would also have to track successful open, creat and truncate system calls requiring write access to a file under the mount point of the external media file system. This could give a fair indication that a write occurred. The only way to truly prove it, would be to track successful writes to the external media. Tracking write system calls could quickly fill up the audit log and is not recommended. Recommendations on configuration options to track data export to media is beyond the scope of this document.
remediation: Create audit rules Edit or create a file in the /etc/audit/rules.d/ directory, ending in .rules extension, with the relevant rules to monitor successful file system mounts. Example: # { UID_MIN=$(awk '/^\s*UID_MIN/{print $2}' /etc/login.defs) [ -n "${UID_MIN}" ] && printf " -a always,exit -F arch=b32 -S mount -F auid>=$UID_MIN -F auid!=unset -k mounts -a always,exit -F arch=b64 -S mount -F auid>=$UID_MIN -F auid!=unset -k mounts " >> /etc/audit/rules.d/50-mounts.rules || printf "ERROR: Variable 'UID_MIN' is unset.\n" } Load audit rules Merge and load the rules into active configuration: # augenrules --load Check if reboot is required. # if [[ $(auditctl -s | grep "enabled") =~ "2" ]]; then printf "Reboot required to load rules\n"; fi.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.1', '10.2', '10.3', '9.4'], 'tsc': ['CC5.2', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k mounts|-F key=mounts && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F arch=b64 && r:-S mount && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1', 'd:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k mounts|-F key=mounts && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F arch=b32 && r:-S mount && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k mounts|-F key=mounts && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F arch=b64 && r:-S mount && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k mounts|-F key=mounts && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F arch=b32 && r:-S mount && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1']
