id: 35730
title: Ensure system warns when audit logs are low on space.
description: The auditd daemon can be configured to halt the system, put the system in single user mode or send a warning message, if the partition that holds the audit log files is low on space. The space_left_action parameter tells the system what action to take when the system has detected that it is starting to get low on disk space. Valid values are ignore, syslog, rotate, email, exec, suspend, single, and halt. - ignore, the audit daemon does nothing - syslog, the audit daemon will issue a warning to syslog - rotate, the audit daemon will rotate logs, losing the oldest to free up space - email, the audit daemon will send a warning to the email account specified in action_mail_acct as well as sending the message to syslog - exec, /path-to-script will execute the script. You cannot pass parameters to the script. The script is also responsible for telling the auditd daemon to resume logging once its completed its action - suspend, the audit daemon will stop writing records to the disk - single, the audit daemon will put the computer system in single user mode - halt, the audit daemon will shut down the system The admin_space_left_action parameter tells the system what action to take when the system has detected that it is low on disk space. Valid values are ignore, syslog, rotate, email, exec, suspend, single, and halt. - ignore, the audit daemon does nothing - syslog, the audit daemon will issue a warning to syslog - rotate, the audit daemon will rotate logs, losing the oldest to free up space - email, the audit daemon will send a warning to the email account specified in action_mail_acct as well as sending the message to syslog - exec, /path-to-script will execute the script. You cannot pass parameters to the script. The script is also responsible for telling the auditd daemon to resume logging once its completed its action - suspend, the audit daemon will stop writing records to the disk - single, the audit daemon will put the computer system in single user mode - halt, the audit daemon will shut down the system.
rationale: In high security contexts, the risk of detecting unauthorized access or nonrepudiation exceeds the benefit of the system's availability.
impact: If the admin_space_left_action is set to single the audit daemon will put the computer system in single user mode.
remediation: Set the space_left_action parameter in /etc/audit/auditd.conf to email, exec, single, or halt: Example: space_left_action = email Set the admin_space_left_action parameter in /etc/audit/auditd.conf to single or halt: Example: admin_space_left_action = single Note: A Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) must be installed and configured properly to set space_left_action = email.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['f:/etc/audit/auditd.conf -> r:space_left_action\\s*\\t*= && r:email|exec|single|halt', 'f:/etc/audit/auditd.conf -> r:admin_space_left_action\\s*\\t*= && r:single|halt']
