id: 35743
title: Ensure events that modify the system's Mandatory Access Controls are collected.
description: Monitor AppArmor, an implementation of mandatory access controls. The parameters below monitor any write access (potential additional, deletion or modification of files in the directory) or attribute changes to the /etc/apparmor/ and /etc/apparmor.d/ directories. Note: If a different Mandatory Access Control method is used, changes to the corresponding directories should be audited.
rationale: Changes to files in the /etc/apparmor/ and /etc/apparmor.d/ directories could indicate that an unauthorized user is attempting to modify access controls and change security contexts, leading to a compromise of the system.
remediation: Edit or create a file in the /etc/audit/rules.d/ directory, ending in .rules extension, with the relevant rules to monitor events that modify the system's Mandatory Access Controls. Example: # printf " -w /etc/apparmor/ -p wa -k MAC-policy -w /etc/apparmor.d/ -p wa -k MAC-policy " >> /etc/audit/rules.d/50-MAC-policy.rules Merge and load the rules into active configuration: # augenrules --load Check if reboot is required. # if [[ $(auditctl -s | grep "enabled") =~ "2" ]]; then printf "Reboot required to load rules\n"; fi.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.1', '10.2', '10.3', '9.4'], 'tsc': ['CC5.2', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k MAC-policy|-F key=MAC-policy && r:^-w && r:/etc/apparmor && r:-p wa', 'd:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k MAC-policy|-F key=MAC-policy && r:^-w && r:/etc/apparmor\\.d && r:-p wa', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k MAC-policy|-F key=MAC-policy && r:^-w && r:/etc/apparmor && r:-p wa', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k MAC-policy|-F key=MAC-policy && r:^-w && r:/etc/apparmor\\.d && r:-p wa']
