id: 35744
title: Ensure successful and unsuccessful attempts to use the chcon command are collected.
description: The operating system must generate audit records for successful/unsuccessful uses of the chcon command.
rationale: The chcon command is used to change file security context. Without generating audit records that are specific to the security and mission needs of the organization, it would be difficult to establish, correlate, and investigate the events relating to an incident or identify those responsible for one. Audit records can be generated from various components within the information system (e.g., module or policy filter).
remediation: Create audit rules Edit or create a file in the /etc/audit/rules.d/ directory, ending in .rules extension, with the relevant rules to monitor successful and unsuccessful attempts to use the chcon command. Example: # { UID_MIN=$(awk '/^\s*UID_MIN/{print $2}' /etc/login.defs) [ -n "${UID_MIN}" ] && printf " -a always,exit -F path=/usr/bin/chcon -F perm=x -F auid>=${UID_MIN} -F auid!=unset -k perm_chng " >> /etc/audit/rules.d/50-perm_chng.rules || printf "ERROR: Variable 'UID_MIN' is unset.\n" } Load audit rules Merge and load the rules into active configuration: # augenrules --load Check if reboot is required. # if [[ $(auditctl -s | grep "enabled") =~ "2" ]]; then printf "Reboot required to load rules\n"; fi.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.2', '10.3', '5.3', '6.4'], 'tsc': ['CC7.1', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k perm_chng|-F key=perm_chng && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F path=/usr/bin/chcon && r:-F perm=x && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k perm_chng|-F key=perm_chng && r:^-a && r:always,exit|exit,always && r:-F path=/usr/bin/chcon && r:-F perm=x && r:-F auid>=\\d+ && r:-F auid!=unset|-F auid!=-1']
