id: 35741
title: Ensure login and logout events are collected.
description: Monitor login and logout events. The parameters below track changes to files associated with login/logout events. - /var/log/lastlog - maintain records of the last time a user successfully logged in. - /var/run/faillock - directory maintains records of login failures via the pam_faillock module.
rationale: Monitoring login/logout events could provide a system administrator with information associated with brute force attacks against user logins.
remediation: Edit or create a file in the /etc/audit/rules.d/ directory, ending in .rules extension, with the relevant rules to monitor login and logout events. Example: # printf " -w /var/log/lastlog -p wa -k logins -w /var/run/faillock -p wa -k logins " >> /etc/audit/rules.d/50-login.rules Merge and load the rules into active configuration: # augenrules --load Check if reboot is required. # if [[ $(auditctl -s | grep "enabled") =~ "2" ]]; then printf "Reboot required to load rules\n"; fi.
compliance: {'cmmc': ['AU.L2-3.3.1'], 'fedramp': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'gdpr': ['32', '33'], 'hipaa': ['164.312(b)', '164.308(a)(6)'], 'iso_27001': ['A.12.4.1', 'A.12.4.2', 'A.12.4.3', 'A.16.1.2'], 'nis2': ['21.2.a', '23', '21.2.b'], 'nist_800_171': ['3.3.1'], 'nist_800_53': ['AU-3', 'AU-7'], 'pci_dss': ['10.1', '10.2', '10.3', '9.4'], 'tsc': ['CC5.2', 'CC7.2', 'CC7.1', 'CC7.3', 'CC7.4', 'CC7.5', 'CC4.1', 'CC4.2']}
mitre: {'tactic': ['TA0005', 'TA0006', 'TA0007'], 'technique': ['T1562', 'T1070', 'T1059', 'T1040'], 'subtechnique': ['T1562.002', 'T1070.001']}
condition: all
rules: ['d:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k logins|-F key=logins && r:^-w && r:/var/log/lastlog && r:-p wa', 'd:/etc/audit/rules.d -> r:.+\\.rules$ -> r:-k logins|-F key=logins && r:^-w && r:/var/run/faillock && r:-p wa', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k logins|-F key=logins && r:^-w && r:/var/log/lastlog && r:-p wa', 'c:auditctl -l -> r:-k logins|-F key=logins && r:^-w && r:/var/run/faillock && r:-p wa']
